Through this course, we learned how to manage a web application's architecture that we would work to evolve throughout the 8-week course. Beginning module 1, we deployed Express, a NodeJS framework, that would manage the server-side of the web pages that the customer will be viewing. This allowed us a way to build RESTful APIs that would respond to the user's input by pulling and serving new pages from the server that the user is asking for.

While working through the different modules as the project continued to progress, we then tried out a single-page application (SPA) model using the Angular framework. This allowed us a more modern approach allowed us to cache the HTML on the client side using Postman, learning that this put less stress on the server for the different types of data we were using. We used JavaScript due to its incredible uses in web development and allowing us to create a more customized user experience. 

Going throughout the course we then got into SPAs, which allowed the application to change the page in response to user actions, leading to smoother transitions and a more seamless experience for the user. The SPA framework also allowed us to use different tools that allow us to create a better user experience. 
MongoDB is extremely flexible in handling large, data quickly and efficiently making it the optimal choice for the project’s needs in adding different trips, edits, etc.

JSON was the standard data format that we were using for transferring the information between the server and the client. JSON has a similarity to JavaScript object code which simplifies the process, enabling the two different programming languages to communicate effectively to complete the needs.
In the Beginning, we created header and footer components, this cut down on the code required and allowed our development process to be in the front seat.
Something I needed to do and had trouble doing was Incorporating error handling and monitoring server outputs, like using PowerShell to observe Express, which would have made it easier for me to understand the bugs for troubleshooting. Throughout the end of the project we were asked to use standard HTTP methods—GET, POST, PUT, DELETE—to enable data directly through the application’s user interface rather than interfacing with the database. This is something I had trouble with 

This course has opened my eyes to how complex everything is in this field. The experience has deepened my resolve to continue learning, particularly in front-end development. Although I did not fully complete this project and have it fully running I think I can say I grasped the core concepts needed for both Back end and Front end development. 
